Denis Doci
Katarzyna Krawczyk


1. A comparison of blocking.cc and obvious.cc in terms of their algorithmic complexity and cache-friendliness. Why did increasing the block size sometimes increase the miss rate?

When looking at the obvious.cc it is more cache friendly than the blocking.cc program. 
This is because blocking.cc goes through the matrix multiplication of the submatricies 
initial where as the obvious.cc uses "loop fusion" (from book). Therefore, with the 
obvious.cc, your are taking advantage of temporal locality. While increased block sizes typically reduces the 
number of compulsory misses by taking advantage of spatial locality, at larger sizes they
increase miss penalty. This is because larger block sizes mean fewer blocks will be
in cache and this would increase capacity of misses. 

2. What would be the optimal blockingFactor to use for matrix multiplication?

The optimal blocking factor is the the square root of cache size. 

3. A discussion of the significance of the results, given that all of the simulated caches were considerably smaller than current hardware caches.

When looking at the table of the simulation of miss rates in cache sizes, the general rule is that
as cache size increases the miss rate actually decreases. This is because the caches capcity has
increased. Therefore, with current hardware caches being much larger than the simulated cache, it can
be presumed that their miss rates are significantly lower than the simulated ones. 

4. Does increased associativity always reduce the miss rate?

Yes. In general increased associativity reduces miss rate. This is because
Each set has more blocks, so there’s less chance of a conflict between two addresses.

5.How are caches implemented in hardware? Why does the simulator insist that the block size, and the number of sets, must be a whole power of two? Is it always necessary to store the entire block address in the cache for identification purposes?

Caches are implement within the processor of hardware. This is so the processor,
whenever it does a new operation, doesnt have to reach into different parts of memory to
finish the instruction. The reason the number of sets and block size nead to be a power of two
is so that it can be represented as a whole number of bits. And no it is not always necessary to store 
entire adresses. In fact most of the time they're shoretened. 

6.Why does a main memory access involve a significant, fixed overhead? How can main memory systems be designed to support caches?

Main memory access involves significant overhead because the CPU needs to be in sync with main memory to access
it. This requires more time and power to acomplish and causes it to be slower in the accessing and
transfering of data. Main memory systems can be designed to support caches by using DRAM with a fixed-width
clocked bus that reads cache blocks. 

7.What are the attractions of a multilevel caching strategy?

The more cache levels we have, the more main memory can be reached from the cache itself. Therefore, we have more
available accesing to main memory information accecable in the cache and thus we dont need to access main memeory
as often. 
